**Rhiza - founded on the human being**

The city state of Rhiza is all that is left after a long period of wars and natural disasters. Located in a paradisiac island once known as Fernando de Noronha, the city is organized around the concept of social welfare and uses all of its resources to build a better world. Using their advanced technological knowledge, they work towards a world respectful of all beings and natural resources. Technology and nature complement each other in a perfect world.

Each citizen can choose their profession based on their own abilities. However, one profession is special and its professionals are selected while they are very young through a rigorous process: Artificial Intelligence maintainers. AI is a fundamental piece in this society, taking care of all labor-intensive activities. This means humans only have to work on activities that contribute to society's cultural and intellectual development. Those working on AI receive special training to maintain and create AIs. However, all of them are government officials exclusively and live in a segregated area (this is considered a great privilege). The government has been in full control of AI since Rhiza was founded. According to the historical register, humanity’s collapse was caused by the unchecked development of AI and its use in wars, as well as the mass unemployment caused by the replacement of humans in almost all activities. It’s for these reasons that the activity is so heavily regulated.

The alarm rings. Laura Decker is ready for one more day of studies. She is an applied, hard-working freshman and a proud citizen of Rhiza. Despite her love for her community, she frequently looks at the horizon and thinks about exploring the unknown. Leaving the island is forbidden, supposedly to maintain everyone safe.

Laura is part of Rhiza’s elite. She’s always had access to anything she wanted, and yet she has a little secret: hacking into security systems is her hobby---a very unusual activity in a society that does not think they need security systems at all. She hacked many such systems, but never a government one as it is considered a severe crime. Nevertheless, Laura’s actions are motivated by the search for her elder brother Alan, who was recruited to work on AI when he was still a child.

**Laura uncovers the truth**

Laura finally got the courage to hack into the government’s system. It took a lot of preparation to ensure she would not be tracked and now was the time to find her way to her brother, but what she was about to see would completely change her life and what she believes to be her reality. After getting access to the servers, she believes she will need a long time to find anything of interest, but one machine labeled “monitoring” caught her attention. Thinking it would be a random security camera in the city, Laura accessed the first feed on the list and was immediately flabbergasted. She sees hundreds of people doing manual labor non stop. They wear a gray uniform and are not in good shape. Laura cannot comprehend. To top it off, this was a live feed, not some recording from a long time ago.

Laura now doubts the government is as open as it says to be. She needs to discover who those people are, where that place is and what they are doing. Also, she could not find any trace of the AIs the government claims to use to bring external resources into the island.

After a long study of the government’s secret files, Laura begins to see the truth. There really was a world-wide conflict at the time the city was founded, but it was not driven by the abuse of AI nor a conflict between those in-favor and against AIs. Among superpopulation, climate change and other global challenges, humanity had great hopes that an “advanced AI” would be built and solve all of its problems. The research did not progress as fast as people hoped for, leading to the collapse of the world’s economy and wars. Even today there’s no such a thing as an “advanced AI” as it is told in Rhiza. The manual labor is actually performed by human slaves from poor areas.

To keep a group of people capable of controlling the slave colonies, Rhiza’s government traces the psychological profile of all citizens in their infancy, looking for those that lack empathy. These children are removed from their families and subjected to a rigorous trainament to join the top ranks of the government, under the pretext of being selected to work with the non-existent AIs. For Laura’s dismay, that’s exactly what happened to her brother Alan after he was diagnosed as a psychopath.

Rhiza’s founders were rich eugenists, who managed to keep their belongings through the global crisis. The original inhabitants of the island were chosen among their own families and some others who they considered to belong to a “clean race”. The original goal of this society was indeed to keep researching AI and get to the elusive “advanced AI”. This AI would remove the need for human slaves and would allow them to decimate the poor. Eventually, geneticists realized that the genetic pool of the island would make it impossible to sustain the birth of healthy humans in the long run. Many people on the island are already infertile. In vitro fertilization is available, and sometimes the genetic material comes from the poor zones, where eggs and sperm are forcefully collected, enriching ever so slightly the genetic pool of the island.

**Resistance?**

Laura feels desolated after learning the truth, but she suddenly remembered a curious episode from her childhood. She was playing in the garden next to her home with her brother before he was taken. They found a capsule buried on the ground, but their father, Augusto, quickly intervened and took it away. What could be inside of it?

She searches her basement for it and finds the capsule in a safe she easily cracked open. It was a time capsule, containing reports from three companies worried about the imminent war: Telefónica, BugHunt e PRIDE. The capsule also contains an optical media and instructions on how to read it.

Laura finds an immense library in the media describing in detail the technologies of the year 2020, and instructions on how to access a submarine fiber optic network that connects the island to the mainland. Why did her father hide the capsule? Did he know what was inside? If he did, why didn’t he destroy it, or give it to the government? Would her family be part of a secret movement against the government? Was her brother really a psychopath, or was that retribution?

Laura has many doubts still, but she now has a lot more motives to hack. CTF-BR{join_Lauras_fight_against_opression_and_discover_the_truth!}